have you ever felt victim to Google over
spending your budget or perhaps have you
ever felt that fear of constantly having
to check your accounts again and again
and again and having to refresh the page
just to make sure you're not gonna
overspend
hey guys Silvio Perez from ad conversion
and in today's video I'm gonna show you
two quick and easy ways you can protect
your Google ads budget so you can avoid
overspending on Google ads these two
quick and easy ways that I'm going to
share with you have been a game changer
for me this has allowed me to go from
just managing a couple of accounts and
overwhelmed and stress and constantly
having to check the accounts again and
again and refreshing it just to make
sure I don't have to overspend my
clients budgets from that all the way to
managing 15 plus accounts with ease of
mind and peace of mind understanding
that I'm not going to overspend and I
can redirect that mental energy that I
used to expend on things that don't
really matter as much like overspending
your budget which something that can be
easily taken care of with these two easy
ways that I'm going to talk about and
allowed me to shift that energy and that
focus to things that do matter like
strategy optimization and most
importantly getting ahead of the
competition way number one you can
protect your Google ads budget is using
automated rules now if you're not
familiar what automated rules are they
allow you to make changes in your
account automatically within a daily
weekly or monthly timeframe depending on
the conditions and settings you choose
now without further ado I'm going to
show you how you can protect your budget
with automated rules to get started with
automated rules go ahead and hop into
your Google Ads account and then once
you're in there click on tools and
setting which is on the upper right-hand
side and then once you click on tools
and settings under bulk actions it's the
third column you're gonna click on rules
right here so go ahead and click on
rules and then this is gonna open up the
automated rules window here's where
we're going to be able to create our
automated rule to pause our campaigns
once we've exceeded our monthly total so
to get started you're going to click on
that blue plus sign and this is going to
open up all the different types of
automated rules you can run as you can
see here you have a lot of options for
the sake of this video I'm only going to
show you how to set up a month
automated rule to make sure that we
don't exceed our monthly budget but I
definitely recommend that you guys learn
more about automated rules you can do a
lot of great animations in terms of
managing your account and optimizing
your account
utilizing automated rules so moving
forward go ahead and click campaign
rules and then from here under select an
option we're gonna click pause campaigns
as you can see here you can set up
automated rules to turn on campaigns to
change budgets depending on the day for
example and even to send you email
alerts if in the case that lets say a
keyword hasn't generated a certain
amount of conversions and it spent a
certain amount it can send you alerts on
under performing keywords under
performing ads and so on and so forth so
you can get really crazy and advanced
with your optimization in your account
management utilizing automated rules but
again for the sake of our example here
and setting up a monthly budget
automated rule we're gonna go ahead and
set that to pause campaigns then from
there you have some different options on
how you can apply this you can either
apply it to all enabled campaigns which
is all the active campaigns in your
account you can have it set to all
enabled in all pause campaigns which is
a little redundant in our case because
we're only trying to pause campaigns so
we're gonna ignore that one and then the
last one is to select campaigns so you
can go ahead and choose specific
campaigns that you want to go ahead and
make sure that our paused but again in
the case of our account we want to make
sure all campaigns are paused so we're
not exceeding our monthly total and one
more thing just so you guys know if you
click on add down here under the
conditions and you type ylabel if you
have certain labels for certain
campaigns you can get even more specific
on how you pause campaigns or how you
how you utilize your rules based on the
labels you're applying to those
campaigns that's just some food for
thought
but for the our case and setting up our
automated rule for a monthly budget
we're gonna leave that towards all
enabled campaigns and then under
condition go ahead and click Add click
on performance and then click on cost
and we're gonna set our monthly total
here make sure that you leave the
greater than sign because that's the
condition that we want to work with here
so go ahead and enter your monthly total
so let's say for example your monthly
total is $1,000 a month what I like to
do is if my monthly total is $1,000 a
month and I don't want to exceed $1,000
a month for my monthly Google Ads budget
I like to set $20 less so I'll go ahead
and set 980 dollars as my condition and
then click apply and then next thing is
we want to define the frequency of how
often our rule is going to occur there's
different frequencies you can choose
here you can have it run once once rules
are usually moreso applied to one time
things like pausing campaigns or ads
let's say if you're running a promo or a
special offer and it's only for a short
amount of time you can go ahead and set
an automated rule to pause that ad for
you on a one-time basis that's usually
when I have found that I use the once
frequency you can also set daily which
is every day at the time you specify
here this rule is going to run and it's
going to scan your account based on this
condition and it's going to see okay
based on all these enabled campaigns
have we exceeded 980 dollars and if in
the case it has it's gonna go ahead and
pause all your campaigns and that's what
we're going to work with here is daily
we want to make sure we're running this
rule on a daily frequency so that way
we're always on top of our monthly total
so that we are not exceeding our cost
but just so you guys know as well you
can also set a weekly frequency and a
monthly frequency as well but we're
gonna leave that towards daily and then
from there you're gonna go ahead and
adjust your time settings I usually like
to leave this at 3 a.m. Eastern time
that's usually when Google ads updates
and the data from the previous day is
active so then from next thing you're
gonna change using data from and we want
to make sure we change this to the same
month again this is a monthly budget
automated rule and we want to make sure
that it's pulling all the campaign data
the cost data for that month
because if we have this base on the
previous day if you didn't spend more
than I
$980 yesterday what we don't want right
we want to spend that in a month it's
it's can only gonna go based on last
day's information so we want to make
sure we keep this towards the same month
so every day at 3:00 in the morning this
rule is going to run and it's gonna
check based on all my active campaigns
have we spent more than nine hundred and
eighty dollars this month and if in the
case that you haven't it's not gonna
pause your campaigns and if in the case
that you have exceeded 980 dollars it's
going to go ahead and pause all your
active campaigns and then last but not
least guys just go ahead and name this
you can name it monthly budget automated
rule or whatever whatever you like just
as long as you remember it and then next
go ahead and click preview so in the
case of this account I'm on a training
account there's no active campaigns in
this one but if when you click preview
it's gonna go ahead and look at all your
active campaigns and your campaigns are
gonna populate right here and it's going
to tell you whether or not your rule
would fire based on your current total
so then once you click preview
everything looks good just click Save
rule and then there you go your monthly
budget automated rule is running now
another thing too if in the future you
ever decide hey I want to go ahead and
update this rule maybe you increase
budget or maybe you decrease budget all
you got to do is just go back to tools
and settings open up this automated
rules window again
on the far right hand side you click on
edit and you'll be able to adjust all
the settings that you just entered as
well as if in the case that you're just
done with this rule you just don't want
it to run anymore all you got to do is
click here on this edit button on the
left hand side and you can click pause
or even remove so that's it that's how
you set up an automated rule to make
sure that you are not exceeding your
budget every single month your automated
rule is going to check for you on a
24-hour basis to make sure you're not
exceeding your cost total and this gives
you a lot of peace of mind in terms of
not overspending your budget the second
way you can protect your Google ads
budget is using budget scripts scripts
are very similar to automated rules
where they can both make changes in your
account automatically based on the
conditions you set but the main
advantage of using scripts versus rules
is scripts run
hourly frequency versus automated rules
can only run on a daily frequency the
other advantage of scripts are greater
customization in your automation by
being able to write custom code now if
you're freaking out right now thinking
to yourself wait a second I don't know
how to write code don't worry neither do
I there are plenty of pre-written
scripts already created for you out
there on the internet and all you have
to do is find them and then copy and
paste them into your account and change
a few little things and you're ready to
go now the budget script that I
recommend that you use and that I
personally use and absolutely love and
have been using for a while now is a
script that's been created from
optimizer specifically from Frederick
valleys from optimizer he wrote this
script and he put it out there online
for all of us to be able to benefit from
so huge shout out to him and I'm gonna
go ahead and show you step by step how
to get set up with this budget script by
optimizer and if in the case that you
want to follow along and you want to
access the script I'm gonna put that
script and the link to where to get it
down below in the description box so go
ahead and check out the description box
pause this video and then open up that
link to the article that way you can
follow along with getting this script
set up in order to get started setting
up the monthly budget script by
optimizer go ahead and click on the
description box down below and open up
this article I'll have it linked down
below for you but just go ahead and
click on that link and open up this
article so you can follow along and then
that way you'll be able to just copy and
paste the script code which I'll show
you how to do in just a second also if
in the case that you prefer to read
verses watch the video to set up the
script then I highly recommend you check
out this article by Fredrick valets the
CEO of optimizer he did a really great
job of outlining it in a very easy to
follow manner so without further ado
let's get started go ahead and scroll
down on this page and go down to script
settings and click on copy of the script
code from bitbucket there's gonna
redirect us to bitbucket org and this is
the script code which we're gonna paste
into our account so again you don't need
to know coding all you need to do is
change a few lines of text which I'm
going to show you just now but you can
see this whole entire script is already
written for us so all we got to do is
just copy it into our account so then
from here click on raw and then on your
keyboard click command a on a Mac and if
your
windows click control a and then click
command C on a Mac to copy and if you're
on Windows ctrl C and then I need you to
go back into your Google Ads account so
we can paste this script in once you're
back in your Google Ads account click on
tools and settings on the right hand
side and then under bulk actions click
scripts and then from here we're gonna
open up the script of window and then
click on this blue plus sign and create
a new script and then once this loads
we're gonna be able to paste in that
script code which we just copied from
bitbucket right here into our Google Ads
account and then we're just gonna change
a few lines of text and we'll be off to
the race in terms of setting this up
alright so this is what you should see
for a new script it should say unnamed
script and you should have a few lines
of code here just go ahead and delete
that with your keyboard and then right
here click command V on the Mac to paste
it in or ctrl V on a Windows to paste in
that code and there you go now you have
all the script code paste it in to your
account and just something to mention
really quick to just make sure that you
paste it in correctly so just double
check and make sure it reflects the
actual code but once this is all pasted
in the next thing you're gonna do is
you're going to name this script so I
like to call it monthly budget but you
can call it whatever you like and then
from there we're gonna change a few
lines of code in this script to make
sure that it's customized for our needs
so right here on the top scroll all the
way to the top under settings you're
gonna see here it says current setting
dot scope equals a count what that means
is is this script is gonna be looking at
your information account-wide so in the
case of this script it's a monthly
budget script so it's gonna be looking
at your cost data account-wide which is
what we want because we don't want our
account to exceed our monthly cost that
way we can stay within budget so that's
fine leave that as is then the next
thing is current setting dot max cost
equals getfloat and then in that number
or in those parentheses there's a number
and if in the case for you there is no
number it'll be like this that's where
you're gonna end
enter in your monthly budget the number
that you do not want to exceed so going
back to the example of a thousand
dollars I'm gonna put 980 because I just
like - I'd rather under spend then
overspend just to be safe so I'll go
ahead and put 980 because I do not want
to exceed $1,000 a month but if in the
case you want to just put a thousand
that's fine as well that's just
something I do to just be a little bit
safer but I'm going to go ahead and put
here as 980 as my total so once my
account spends 980 dollars within that
month this script is gonna pause all my
campaigns that way I do not overspend
then the next line it's going to say
here current setting budget period
equals monthly that's perfect we want to
go ahead and leave that to monthly
because this is a monthly budget script
and then the next thing it says current
setting dot label name equals quotation
quotation what we want to do here is we
want to set a label name because we have
to go ahead and label our campaigns so
that way this script understands which
campaigns we have to pause in order to
not exceed our monthly budget so the one
that I always like to use is active so
you can just go ahead and type in active
and that's the label that we're going to
create in just a second and and tag all
our active campaigns with so then once
you created the label name the next line
it says stopped by budget script leave
that as is that just means that when
this script fires and it actually pauses
your campaigns it's going to label all
the campaign's that it paused with a
script called stopped by budget script
which is totally fine so just leave that
as is and then the next thing is current
setting dot a mail this is where you're
gonna enter in your own email address
where you'd like to be notified every
time this script runs so that's a really
cool thing to about automation in this
monthly budget script is you have the
peace of mind knowing that this script
is going to be running every hour on the
hour
making sure you're not exceeding your
monthly cost that you enter here and
once it does execute the script and it
does pause your campaigns you're gonna
get emailed from from yourself you're
gonna get an email from yourself on your
own behalf because you're gonna connect
your email to this script in just a
second but you're gonna be emailed
saying that the script is fired and this
is how much you spent when the script
was executed versus your your total that
you entered so this really gives you
complete peace of mind knowing that hey
I can focus on things that matter like
strategy and improving my accounts while
this script is taking care of exceeding
my monthly budget so it's really great
and it's running every hour on the hour
in the background so go ahead and enter
in your email where you'd like to be
notified so I'm just gonna put your
email at gmail.com for four examples and
then the next thing is current setting
pause items leave this as yes that means
that it's going to pause the campaign's
that you labeled we want to leave that
as is so that way we don't overextend
and then the last one it's completely
optional this is current settings
reenable items it's currently set to yes
what this means is is that after all
your campaigns have been paused once the
next month starts the new monthly period
starts if you leave this set to yes it's
going to go ahead and re-enable all
those campaigns that it paused that are
labeled with the active label that we're
gonna create in a second if you want
your campaigns to be re-enabled by the
script every single month then leave
this as yes if not then you can go ahead
and just delete this and type no so I'm
gonna leave it as yes and then once you
have that set all you got to do here is
click preview so click preview on the
bottom right-hand side and it's not
gonna it's actually not going to do
anything which is fine because we need
to authorize it now so once you click
preview click on this down arrow right
here and then click authorize and then
click on your email address and just
give this script permission to to send
an email as you and to be able to manage
your campaigns on your behalf so then
once you have it authorized all you're
gonna do is you're gonna click preview
again just to make sure it's running
properly and right now it's loading it's
executing the script and you can see
here it says change description label
added stop by budget script monthly
successful that's good that's what we
want to see and then if you click on
logs it's going to show you right here
on the bottom account cost is currently
$0 and this doesn't
exceed the allowed budget for the
account if in the case that you're
currently running campaigns and you have
cost data for the month it'll tell you
whatever your account cost data is here
and whether or not it exceeds the total
that you set it will tell you whether or
not it's going to fire so that's perfect
now just go ahead and click that arrow
again and then click close and then last
but not least we need to set our
frequency for this script so we're going
to go ahead and click this little arrow
or this little pencil under frequency
and then we're gonna switch this from
daily to hourly and then click Save and
that's it the script is set up where
it's gonna be running every hour on the
hour checking your account cost total
making sure you're not exceeding the
total that you set in the script now
there is one more thing that we have to
do and that's adding the label to our
campaign but just a quick reminder the
advantage of using the script versus the
automated rule is the script runs every
hour versus the automated rule only runs
every 24 hours on a daily basis so with
the script your chances of overspending
are a lot less because it's checking
more frequently if in the case that
you're running a smaller account and
overspending isn't something that
usually happens an automated daily rule
it'll work just fine for you but if in
the case you're running a higher volume
account you have higher cost per clicks
and you have a lot more seasonality in
your campaign frequency and how many
clicks you get on a daily basis running
the monthly budget script on an hourly
basis is going to work better for you
because your chance is based on your
account are a lot more likely to
overspend so that's just a quick side
note for you guys so from here let's go
ahead and hop back into our campaigns
you can click G C on your keyboard as a
quick shortcut and then once we're here
back in our campaigns we're gonna add a
label that we created in the script so
that way the the script knows what
campaigns to pause so click on columns
modify columns go down to attributes
label I like to move this all the way to
the top and then just click apply and
then now we're gonna create a label and
we're gonna apply to this campaign
so click on the campaign's that you that
you have that you'd like the script to
pause and then click on label click a
new label and then we're gonna name this
active because that's what I named the
label name under the script information
so if you follow it along with what I
did and you named it active as well then
just type in active and you'll be all
set and if in the case that you named it
something else just type in whatever it
is that you named it and then click
create and then apply and there you go
you can see tutorial campaign is has the
label active so now when I enable this
campaign I have the script running in
the background and if the tutorial
campaign exceeds nine hundred and eighty
dollars within that monthly period it's
gonna get paused and I'm gonna get
emailed automatically saying that the
campaign was paused that is it for this
video I hope you got tremendous value
from it thanks so much for watching if
you like this video feel free to sums up
the video and if you want to get
notified of future Google advertising
contract that bell notification icon
down below and if there are any topics
that I haven't covered yet that you'd
like me to make a video on feel free to
drop that in the comment box down below
or connect with me online at ad
conversion and you can send me a DM and
I'll be more than happy to connect with
you there as well thanks so much for
watching until next time take care